README.md, before:

[![Backers on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/backers/badge.svg)](#backers) [![Sponsors on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsors/badge.svg)](#sponsors) [![NuGet Version](http://img.shields.io/nuget/v/GeoJSON.NET.svg?style=flat)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/GeoJSON.NET/) 
[![Build status](https://dev.azure.com/GeoJSON-Net/GeoJSON.Net/_apis/build/status/GeoJSON.Net)](https://dev.azure.com/GeoJSON-Net/GeoJSON.Net/_build/latest?definitionId=1)

# GeoJSON.NET
GeoJSON.Net is a .NET library for the [RFC 7946 The GeoJSON Format](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946) and it uses and provides [Newtonsoft Json.NET](http://json.codeplex.com) converters for serialization and deserialization of GeoJSON data.

## Installation & Usage

[GeoJSON.Net NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/GeoJSON.Net/):
`Install-Package GeoJSON.Net`

### Serialization

```csharp
Position position = new Position(51.899523, -2.124156);
Point point = new Point(position);

string json = JsonConvert.SerializeObject(point);
```

### Deserialization

```csharp
string json = "{\"coordinates\":[-2.124156,51.899523],\"type\":\"Point\"}";

Point point = JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<Point>(json);
```

See the [Tests](https://github.com/GeoJSON-Net/GeoJSON.Net/tree/master/src/GeoJSON.Net.Tests) for more examples.

## Special considerations for ASP.Net Core 3+

System.Text.Json is the default (recommended) serializer. GeoJSON.Net **does not play well with System.Text.Json**. Here are the recommended steps as a workaround:

- add the "Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.NewtonsoftJson" NuGet Package
- add "services.AddControllers().AddNewtonsoftJson();" to your service configuration.

(Thanks for @jrowe88 for pointing this out)

## Contributing
Highly welcome! Just fork away and send a pull request. We try and review most pull requests within a couple of days. There is now a version 2.0.0 branch. I've created this ready for any breaking changes and any extra features and would encourage anything that isn't a bug fix to go in there.

## Thanks
This library would be NOTHING without its [contributors](https://github.com/GeoJSON-Net/GeoJSON.Net/graphs/contributors) - thanks so much!!

## Sponsors

 We have the awesome .NET tools from [JetBrains](http://www.jetbrains.com/).

[![Resharper](http://www.filehelpers.net/images/tools_resharper.gif)](http://www.jetbrains.com/resharper/)

## Contributors

This project exists thanks to all the people who contribute. 
<a href="https://github.com/GeoJSON-Net/GeoJSON.Net/graphs/contributors"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/contributors.svg?width=890&button=false" /></a>


## Backers

Thank you to all our backers! 🙏 [[Become a backer](https://opencollective.com/geojson-net#backer)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net#backers" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/backers.svg?width=890"></a>


## Sponsors

Support this project by becoming a sponsor. Your logo will show up here with a link to your website. [[Become a sponsor](https://opencollective.com/geojson-net#sponsor)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/2/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/3/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/4/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/5/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/6/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/7/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/8/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/9/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/9/avatar.svg"></a>

Commit message:

Updated the readme to point to geojson.text for system.text.json support

README.md, after:

[![Backers on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/backers/badge.svg)](#backers) [![Sponsors on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsors/badge.svg)](#sponsors) [![NuGet Version](http://img.shields.io/nuget/v/GeoJSON.NET.svg?style=flat)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/GeoJSON.NET/) 
[![Build status](https://dev.azure.com/GeoJSON-Net/GeoJSON.Net/_apis/build/status/GeoJSON.Net)](https://dev.azure.com/GeoJSON-Net/GeoJSON.Net/_build/latest?definitionId=1)

# GeoJSON.NET
GeoJSON.Net is a .NET library for the [RFC 7946 The GeoJSON Format](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946) and it uses and provides [Newtonsoft Json.NET](http://json.codeplex.com) converters for serialization and deserialization of GeoJSON data.

## Installation & Usage

[GeoJSON.Net NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/GeoJSON.Net/):
`Install-Package GeoJSON.Net`

### Serialization

```csharp
Position position = new Position(51.899523, -2.124156);
Point point = new Point(position);

string json = JsonConvert.SerializeObject(point);
```

### Deserialization

```csharp
string json = "{\"coordinates\":[-2.124156,51.899523],\"type\":\"Point\"}";

Point point = JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<Point>(json);
```

See the [Tests](https://github.com/GeoJSON-Net/GeoJSON.Net/tree/master/src/GeoJSON.Net.Tests) for more examples.

## Special considerations for ASP.Net Core 3.1+

System.Text.Json is the default (recommended) serializer. GeoJSON.Net **does not play well with System.Text.Json** and only supports Newtonsoft.Json

[GeoJSON.Text](https://github.com/GeoJSON-Net/GeoJSON.Text) is a fork of this repository and have been developed to support System.Text.Json.

If you still need to use Newtonsoft.Json in ASP.Net Core 3.1+, you must overwrite the default serializer.

- add the "Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.NewtonsoftJson" NuGet Package
- add "services.AddControllers().AddNewtonsoftJson();" to your service configuration.

## Contributing
Highly welcome! Just fork away and send a pull request. We try and review most pull requests within a couple of days. There is now a version 2.0.0 branch. I've created this ready for any breaking changes and any extra features and would encourage anything that isn't a bug fix to go in there.

## Thanks
This library would be NOTHING without its [contributors](https://github.com/GeoJSON-Net/GeoJSON.Net/graphs/contributors) - thanks so much!!

## Sponsors

 We have the awesome .NET tools from [JetBrains](http://www.jetbrains.com/).

[![Resharper](http://www.filehelpers.net/images/tools_resharper.gif)](http://www.jetbrains.com/resharper/)

## Contributors

This project exists thanks to all the people who contribute. 
<a href="https://github.com/GeoJSON-Net/GeoJSON.Net/graphs/contributors"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/contributors.svg?width=890&button=false" /></a>


## Backers

Thank you to all our backers! 🙏 [[Become a backer](https://opencollective.com/geojson-net#backer)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net#backers" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/backers.svg?width=890"></a>


## Sponsors

Support this project by becoming a sponsor. Your logo will show up here with a link to your website. [[Become a sponsor](https://opencollective.com/geojson-net#sponsor)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/2/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/3/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/4/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/5/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/6/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/7/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/8/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/9/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/geojson-net/sponsor/9/avatar.svg"></a>
